I help you
yes you can um my name is Mark Johnson
and I'm five minutes late for a job
interview that's okay you can fill out
this job application you can have a seat
right over there oh okay
thank you you're welcome
excuse me yes on this application should
I use my full name or my nickname your
full name would be the best thank you
you're welcome
ah yes excuse me yeah for my address do
you want my home address or my
university address your home address
would be the best thank you you're
welcome
pardon me yes for job experience do you
want full-time we want everything we
would like everything full-time
part-time yes everything full-time
part-time everything everything yes
thank you you're welcome
pardon me yes for references you need to
two of them 2k can it be somebody in my
family no it cannot be a family member
cannot be a reference no okay yes
that's okay don't worry about it um do
you have a resume a resume a resume yes
oh yes if you give me a resume that's
all we'll need okay I resume sure I have
it I have one yes here thank you thank
you very much please have a seat and my
boss will be with you in a moment please
sit down just sit down okay
Wow
I think I should not ask her any more
questions hello mr. Johnson I'm Sam
Wilson the office manager Oh how are you
I'm fine thank you it's nice to meet you
mr. Wilson nice to meet you too would
you please move into my office thank you
sir
[Music]
this is a very nice office thank you
please sit down thank you I understand
that you are interested in the position
in our sales and marketing department
yes I think I could do a very good job I
think I would enjoy being a Salesman how
did you find out about this job I read
about it in the classified ads in the
newspaper your resume says that you
graduated from the University with a
bachelor's degree in both business and
chemistry yes I also graduated with a
master's degree in chemical engineering
that's very good but for this job you
need to know about marketing no problem
I've had many courses in marketing do
you have your transcripts with you yes I
have copies of both my bachelor's degree
and my master's degree translate great
okay thank you tell me about your past
work experience well I worked for six
months
delivering pizzas when I was in
university that's very good but for this
job you will need to know about
marketing tell me about your experience
in business oh well um when I studied at
the University I worked part-time as a
sales clerk so you have experience in
sales yes I also worked for two years in
a chemical company in town in the
marketing department did you enjoy that
job yes I enjoyed it very much well if
you work here I will be your employer I
am sure you will enjoy working here also
thank you mark I think you have the
qualifications for this job I would like
to welcome you to the company really
well great thanks a lot mr. Wilson I
promise to be the best employee you have
[Music]
and hello good morning do you remember
me oh yes you're the man who asked so
many questions yesterday I'm sorry I was
very nervous about the job interview
that's okay I was very nervous on my job
interview to mark hello how are you this
morning I'm fine thank you mr. Wilson
and you I am well too but today I am
very busy I have reports to create and I
have meetings to attend I think today I
will not have time to take you on a tour
of the office I'll ask the secretary to
do that for us okay Linda yes would you
take mr. Johnson for a tour of the
office please yes sir thank you very
much
Oh mark would you meet me today at 1
o'clock for a business meeting please
sure no problem mr. Wilson I'll be there
thank you okay please come with me mr.
Johnson oh please call me mark okay
okay mark this will be your desk and
this is your chair this is your
telephone then these are your files how
I feel like it's my birthday well here's
some more birthday presents here are
your pens and pencils your calculator
your ruler your scissors your stapler by
the way a moment ago I didn't hear your
name Oh
my name is Linda how do you do yes nice
nice to meet you Linda so do you work
here every day yes I work here Monday to
Friday
oh so you're free on Saturday and Sunday
well yes I don't work on Saturday or
Sunday ha
neither do I so if you have some free
time maybe we could go to see a movie
and make some dinner sure that would be
nice
would you mind can I ask you a question
sure
when we go and see you movie and eat
dinner would you mind if I invited my
husband and three children husband and
children
oh sure that that's fine um so uh if if
I need to send a fax where's the fax
machine the fax machine is in here okay
and now what about a computer the
computers are over there and you can use
them anytime Oh mark I would like to
introduce you to Tom Brown and Susan
Davis tom is the purchasing manager and
Susan is the marketing supervisor it's
nice to meet you both thank you it's
nice to meet you also
you're the new employee aren't you yes
today is my first day welcome to our
company yes welcome to the company in
fact I will be your supervisor Linda do
you mind if I take mr. Johnson now and
talk to him about his new job not at all
I just finished giving him the company
to her well goodbye mark
see you later Linda see you later
[Music]
so mark how do you like your new job
well I think I like it a lot but I don't
know very much about what I will be
doing oh that's no problem I can tell
you what ever you need to know good what
will be my work schedule well you'll be
working about 100 hours a week 100 hours
a week isn't that a lot of work I'm just
joking mark he'll be working about 40
hours a week okay what time should I
come in the morning you should be here
around 9 o'clock in the morning and you
can go home at around 5 o'clock in the
evening that's a lot better than 100
hours a week
yes it is your job is going to be to
sell our product to the customer okay
how would I do that well you'll need to
call them on the telephone and set up an
appointment then when you meet them you
can discuss our product with them when I
meet with our customers do I meet them
at our office or do I go to their office
you should go to their office or if it's
more convenient you can meet them for
lunch should I pay for their lunch also
yes definitely pay for their lunch we
have money in our budget for that oh
well then maybe I will have steak
speaking of food would you like to go to
the canteen for a small snack we can
talk a little bit more there sure yeah I
was just thinking I was a little bit
thirsty good let's go I'll show you
where it is
[Music]
okay anyway you will also have a budget
for your travel will pay for your
gasoline and your parking really Wow
I think I'm going to like this job very
much mm-hmm yes there are some very nice
things about this job but you will also
need to work hard every day and of
course you should try to meet with five
to ten customers every week why that is
our target for our sales staff do we
have a target for how many customers
should buy our products yes of course
how many all of them all of us yeah
really we do have goals and targets for
our sales stuff but you won't need to
worry about that until after your
training oh how long will my training be
it depends on how quickly you learn oh
no what if my training time depends on
how quickly I learn I could be training
for 20 years okay usually our employees
train for six months that sounds like
enough time right oh and also you need
to write a sales report for me every
Monday okay what do you want me to write
you should write what customers you've
met with what products they would like
to buy and how much okay do we have any
other meetings during the week no not
usually
but if we do I will send you a memo to
tell you about it okay oh do you have a
book
pamphlets brochures about our products
yes there are few okay you can look over
them before our business conference
today aboard you
okay there you are hard enjoy your
morning what well at least I don't have
to give a presentation about all of this
today Oh mark I forgot to tell you
please be sure to be prepared to give a
presentation before today's meeting
about what you've read goodbye
[Music]
thank you all for coming today first of
all I would like you all to meet mr.
mark Johnson
he's our new salesperson with the
company I think mark has met everyone oh
except for Ann hello mark
I'm Ann nice to meet you I'm a
salesperson - it's nice to meet you and
maybe you can help to teach me about my
new job sure we can be a team you help
me I'll help you
that sounds good to me - now let's talk
about business Linda will you please
take notes of our meeting for us I have
my pen and paper ready great please read
the notes of our last meeting for us
okay first we talked about the budget
for next year our budget is getting
smaller every year second we talked
about the new products we are going to
be selling she means the products you
and I will be selling okay third we
talked about the profit that we had last
month
and first we talked about the bills we
had to pay we always have more bills
than profits finally we talked about the
raising the cost of our new products I'm
afraid our customers will think our
product is too expensive why is everyone
whispering sorry Linda okay we have a
few things to talk about today Susan
would you like to give your report yes
thank you
I have a thin scrap I would like to show
everyone this shows how well we are
selling our product this year this line
is the sales of our product and this
line is the sales of our competitors
product so if that line goes up am i
doing a good job
exactly okay and if that line goes up
does my salary go up good question and
we'll talk about that after the meeting
Susan do we have many competitors no not
really but enough to keep us busy anyway
good job man I'm sure you and mark will
do even better next month Thank You
Susan
very good Tom do you have anything to
tell everyone yes don't forget if you
want me to buy something for your office
the deadline is tomorrow oh I need a new
typewriter mine is broken
okay no problem if anyone wants me to
buy something tell me before the
deadline okay is that everything okay I
think that's all you can go now oh wait
mike has the presentation he would like
to give about his new job
oh yeah okay
[Music]
mark Friday at one o'clock I would like
you to go with me to a seminar sure no
problem
Friday one o'clock maybe you should
write that on your calendar so you don't
forget really no problem
I can remember I promise okay
see you on Friday okay Oh mark now you
should probably call some customers and
make some appointments okay let's see
who would be a good company to call hmm
hmm this looks like a good company maybe
they will be interested in our products
in st company good afternoon
yes hello my name is Mark Johnson I'm
calling from the Wilson marketing
company may I please speak to the
production manager ah that would be Jim
Pearson just a moment I will connect you
hello this is Jim Pearson can I help you
yes hello mr. Pierson my name is Mark
Johnson I'm calling from the Wilson
marketing company how are you today fine
thank you mr. Johnson are you the
production manager yes I am how can I
help you
actually I think I can help you really
how I have many products that I can show
you that will help your company to save
a lot of money you will have more
production and better quality if you use
our products really that's very
interesting
are they expensive products or are they
cheap products we can talk about the
price later I would like to meet with
you to talk with you more if you are
free actually mr. Johnson I'm very busy
every day this week
do you have one hour free this week I
promise I won't be wasting your time
well I have a little bit of time at
lunchtime on Friday if it is convenient
we can eat lunch together on Friday that
would be fine how about one o'clock on
Friday at the Blue Moon restaurant one
o'clock on Friday that's fine okay then
I will see you at the Blue Moon
restaurant one o'clock on Friday fine
thank you very much for your time mr.
Pierson you're welcome mr. Johnson
goodbye goodbye mark
I need you to help me me help you sure
I'll do anything to help you sir
anything anything I need you to take me
to the airport this week
sure no problem when Friday at 1:00
o'clock Friday and one o clock yes thank
you for your help I appreciate it oh no
I have three appointments on Friday at 1
o'clock I have a seminar with Susan
Friday at 1:00 o'clock I must meet my
customer Friday at 1 o clock
and I must take my boss to the airport
Friday at 1 o clock number 1 cancel
seminar with Susan number 2 ask someone
to take my boss to the airport for me
number 3 meet my customer Friday at 1
o'clock at the restaurant and number 4
buy a new calendar
[Music]
you must be mark Johnson you must be mr.
Pierson yes oh sorry I'm late
never mind please sit down thank you
would you like something to drink yes
some tea would be nice okay waitress a
cup of tea please
so mr. Pierson I hear that your company
is very large yes it is a very large
company we have more than 1 million
customers and it seems that your company
is not only domestic but it is also an
international company yes it is an
international company it has customers
in more than 10 countries I think you
must be a very busy man
yes I stay very busy okay what can I get
for you to eat today I would like a
steak all right and what can I get for
you sir I think I would like a steak
also okay I'll have that back in about
five minutes
thank you
how long have you worked at Wilson
marketing company well not very long
actually this is my first week but I
have worked in chemical sales for
several years really how do you like it
oh I love it it is a very good job and
the products that I will sell to you are
very good also that is if I buy the
products I have to know about them first
before I decide to buy them that's true
that's true um today I just wanted to
meet with you for a short time and talk
with you about how our products can help
you these papers explain how the
products will help
what is this page about okay this page
lists our product specifications and
explains the chemical processes of our
products I see and about this page well
this page is a report about the new high
technology that we used to research and
develop our products okay
and how about this page okay this page
lists all of the advantages that your
company will receive when you use our
products good could you give me a few
days to read them and to talk with my
staff about them sure no problem
maybe I can meet with you again next
week and we can discuss our products
then yes I think it would be fine thank
you
[Applause]
also I need a receipt please okay I'll
be right back thank you okay here are
some papers and brochures with
information about our products thank you
you know mark I'm really glad I met you
today it seems like we're already
friends Thank You mr. Pearson so when
would be a good day to meet next week
[Applause]
I think Tuesday morning is good
are you free then yes
Tuesday is fine so I will meet you at
your office on next Tuesday and if you
have any questions about our products
you can ask me then okay thank you for
lunch mark it was delicious
you're welcome all right so I'll see you
next Tuesday
yes okay we'll be good bye my goodbye
disappears
[Music]
hello mark come in please
hello how are you today fine thank you
did you have a nice weekend yes it was
very nice I spent time with my family I
took my children to a football game hey
sounds like you had a nice time I hope
you're not too busy to talk with me
today no never mind I have read all of
your papers about the products oh good
what do you think are you interested
your products are very interesting but I
have some questions about the products
no problem
what would you like to know okay
tell me about these products mark okay
well you can use these products in your
machines at your factory really how will
they help well first of all they can
help your machines to run faster you
mean they will help to improve the
production if I use these products yes
you will have more production and you
will have better quality if you use
these products for my factory which
product is the best to use let's see I
think this product is the best for your
factory
why well because you can use this
product in all of your machines and it's
very easy to use is it dangerous or
toxic oh not at all not at all and can I
store this in my warehouse yes you can
for how long you can store this product
in your warehouse I for over one year
now can I test this product before I buy
it you sure can
as a matter of fact I have brought a
small sample for you to test in your
factory ok a small sample I think this
will be enough for you to tell yes I am
very sure that that will be enough can
you help my workers at the factory to
test this product yes I can
it's very easy ok when would you like to
test it
[Music]
well if you have enough time you could
go to the factory today I can call and
let them know you are coming today sure
that's fine that's fine
hello is this time yes this is Jim today
a sales technician will bring the sample
to test in the machines can you help
them okay thank you wow it sure was easy
everything is easy when you are the
production manager okay
so after we have tested the product in
the machines when would you like for me
to come again to discuss the results
give me one or two weeks I want to look
at the data then I will call you no
problem we can discuss all of the
details then okay thank you very much
for your interest Tim I hope it will
help my factory to have more production
it will I guarantee it you guarantee it
yes I guarantee it okay thank you well
thank you very much mark okay thank you
Jim goodbye goodbye
[Music]
yes this is very important how much will
it cost if I only buy one and if I buy
two will it be cheaper if I buy two it
will be cheaper okay thank you
wow it sounded like you were ordering
something very important for your
company well it's very important but not
for my company it sounded very important
what did you order I ordered two pizzas
I'm miss lunch I'm very hungry
I see I see I heard the test went very
well are you happy with our product yes
I'm very happy with your product and I
hope I will be happy with the cost well
that's what we are going to talk about
today the cost well your product be very
expensive or will it be cheap expensive
or cheap well our product cost is a
little high
but don't forget you will have more
production and better quality so you
will not lose money but how much will it
cost well that depends on how much you
order if you order a lot the cost will
be a little lower and if I order a
little bit if you order only a little
bit the cost will be higher so how much
does it cost well
one bottle of our product costs about
$20 Oh Marge that's very expensive but
don't forget we can negotiate the price
you mean I can bargain with you yes and
I can discount the price for you
Gregg but I knew you would say that but
you must order a lot to get a good price
and if I order just a little bit I said
before the price will be high and what
are the terms of payment well you have a
one-year contract okay and you can make
one large payment or you can divide into
monthly payments let's see I would much
rather pay by month no problem that's
okay
how much will 500 bottles cost per month
500 bottles okay let's see
there you go how's that that's not bad
but
this is better ah you can buy our
product at this price only if you buy
one thousand bottles
six hundred eight hundred and fifty
seven hundred seven hundred and fifty
it's a deal okay well you are very good
at bargaining mark well you can
negotiate the price very well also Tim
thank you well I guess everything is
finished then okay I know you will be
very happy with our product I hope I can
agree with you but if there are any
problems I have your guarantee yes you
have my guarantee if you have any
problems please call me and I will come
to help you okay thank you very much I
will talk to you soon mark okay thank
you Tim good bye mark
good bye
[Music]
mark how did your presentation go with
mr. Pearson yesterday it went great I
got the deal wonderful congratulations
Thanks listen I've written a contract
for mr. Pearson uh-huh would you mind
typing it for me
sure no problem okay excuse me mark is
that in the contract that you will send
product number four to its factory what
is the address to his factory oh the
address is on the back of the contract
oh okay
thank you mark you didn't write how much
of the product that you were going to
send to the company oh um he'll buy 750
bottles a month oh okay
thank you sure mm-hmm mark yes I'm sorry
um but when are you going to send the
product wrote it at the bottom of the
page then died right there oh I'll be
sending it next week okay okay I didn't
see it I'm sorry no problem okay
Oh mark yes is this a short or long-term
contract it's a long-term contract Linda
okay thank you okay
mark yes well no what he says I'm sorry
in the contract that said you negotiated
the price and I can't read the price
that's it's a three not an eight oh okay
I'm sorry okay okay mark oh yes my what
okay
this was it paid in full or is it going
to be paid in monthly payment monthly
monthly monthly oh okay
monthly payments oh okay in the month
monthly okay all right Linda yeah yes
Mart
do you remember the first time I came to
our company the first day yes you were
going to have an interview with the boss
yes do you remember that I asked very
many questions yes you were bothering me
I almost became upset because I couldn't
do any work right you were upset right
Yeah right now I am trying to work work
oh oh I'm sorry
I'm sorry okay
all right thank you Omar what Limbert
what what congratulations on your first
contract thanks Linda hi there this is
Mary from the IPS TV today we're going
to study about locations the location of
something with preposition between next
to under and above okay now number one
be tween don't say between okay be tween
between now the lamp should be between
these two pairs okay now we have the
lamp
okay the lamb just like usually just
like the light for you that is near to
bear for you before you sleep okay the
lamp should be between these two myths
so two bits